- [Instructor] In Java, the ArrayDeck
is the recommended implementation for when we need a stack,
which is one of the most frequent ways
that we'll work with the deck.
Let's work through a few examples
to see how a deck works as a stack.
For these examples,
let's imagine the Landon Hotel has an older voicemail system
that uses a last in first out approach to store messages.
So messages will be stored
in reverse of the order that they're received.
And we'll just say there's no random access.
This is similar to how your smartphone stores voicemails.
More recent messages appear at the top
and older messages at the bottom,
except with a smartphone, you can play them in any order.
So let's go ahead and we'll build our stack
to work with these messages.
To do that, I'm going to create a new deck
that has a generic type of string.
I'll name it messageStack,
and I'll use an ArrayDeck implementation.
Okay, so now we have our ArrayDeck or our stack.
Let's go ahead and we can push messages
onto the top of the stack.
And I'll keep it simple. I'll just use Message 1.
Then I'm going to push three more messages
onto the top of the stack.
After that, I'm going to use our print method
to print out the contents of the stack
so we can see what's going on.
So I'll just call print and pass in our message stack.
And then I'm going to invoke this method
after each time we push an element
onto the top of the stack.
Okay, let's go ahead, we'll execute this code
and take a look at how the stack works.
You'll notice that as we push each element
onto the top of the stack, it's added at the first position.
When we add another element onto the stack,
it pushes down all the elements that were added before it
and it takes the first position at the top of the stack.
Okay, let's move on to our next example
and I'm going to clean up this code some.
So I'm going to pull each of the calls
that push an element on the top of the stack together
and then I'm going to remove two of our print statements,
then I'm going to pop an element
off of the top of the stack.
So I'll go ahead invoke the pop method on the deck
and then I'll pop another element as well
and then I'm just going to take a peek at the next element.
Okay, let's go ahead and execute this to see what happened.
You'll notice that we push
all of our elements into the stack.
And then when we start to pop,
the first element that we pop
from the top of the stack is Message 4
and that's because it was the last message added.
When we invoke pop again,
Message 3 is at the top of our stack
and that's what we retrieve.
Now, I just peeked at Message 2 so you'll notice
that when we print the contents of our stack,
Message 2 remains at its top.
So here you can see the last in first out order in action.
The last message that we pushed onto the top of our stack
is the first one that's removed
and then we proceed in that order.
Okay, let's walk through one final example
to close out the lesson.
I'm going to push an element on the top of the stack
after we've popped the second element.
So I'll name this Message 5
and then I'm also going to print the contents of the stack
after we pop the second element.
Okay, let's see how this behaves.
So once again, we push all four elements onto the stack.
Then we pop two of the elements.
And now you'll notice we're only left
with Message 2 and Message 1 on the stack
and Message 2 is at the top.
Now, when we push Message 5 onto the stack,
you'll notice it takes the first position at the top.
And then when we make this call to peek,
it retrieves Message 5 from the top of the stack.
So that's a look at one way that you'll most frequently work
with the ArrayDeck, which is using it as a stack.
There are some other situations where you might need to work
with both ends of a double-ended queue,
like maybe adding some undo functionality to an application.
For most of us, those situations will be rare,
so I'll leave it to you to test out
some of the other methods on the deck interface.